# Tips for AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Professional
* AWS strongly recommends that you don’t attach SCPs to the root of your organization without thoroughly testing the impact that the policy has on accounts. Instead, create an OU that you can move your accounts into one at a time, or at least in small numbers, to ensure that you don’t inadvertently lock users out of key services.
* OpenID Connect is an open standard for authentication that is supported by a number of login providers. Amazon Cognito supports the linking of identities with OpenID Connect providers that are configured through AWS Identity and Access Management. Once you’ve created an OpenID Connect provider in the IAM Console, you can associate it with an identity pool.
* When you enable DNSSEC validation on the Route 53 Resolver in your VPC, it ensures that DNS responses have not been tampered with in transit. This can prevent DNS Spoofing.
* You can configure various Docker networking modes that will be used by containers in your ECS task. The valid values are none, bridge, awsvpc, and host. The default Docker network mode is bridge.
  * If the network mode is set to none, the task’s containers do not have external connectivity, and port mappings can’t be specified in the container definition.
  * If the network mode is bridge, the task utilizes Docker’s built-in virtual network which runs inside each container instance.
  * If the network mode is host, the task bypasses Docker’s built-in virtual network and maps container ports directly to the EC2 instance’s network interface directly. In this mode, you can’t run multiple instantiations of the same task on a single container instance when port mappings are used.
  * If the network mode is awsvpc, the task is allocated an elastic network interface, and you must specify a NetworkConfiguration when you create a service or run a task with the task definition. When you use this network mode in your task definitions, every task that is launched from that task definition gets its own elastic network interface (ENI) and a primary private IP address. The task networking feature simplifies container networking and gives you more control over how containerized applications communicate with each other and other services within your VPCs.
* With Direct Connect Gateway, you no longer need to establish multiple BGP sessions for each VPC; this reduces your administrative workload as well as the load on your network devices.
* Using Spot instances for RDS instances is not recommended as this will cause major downtime or data loss in case AWS terminates your spot instance.
* AWS Systems Manager Patch Manager automates the process of patching managed instances with both security-related and other types of updates. You can use Patch Manager to apply patches for both operating systems and applications. You can use a patch group to associate instances with a specific patch baseline. Patch groups help ensure that you are deploying the appropriate patches, based on the associated patch baseline rules, to the correct set of instances.
* The AWS-DefaultPatchBaseline baseline is primarily used to approve all Windows Server operating system patches that are classified as “CriticalUpdates” or “SecurityUpdates” and that have an MSRC severity of “Critical” or “Important”. Patches are auto-approved seven days after release.
* In general, bucket owners pay for all Amazon S3 storage and data transfer costs associated with their bucket. A bucket owner, however, can configure a bucket to be a Requester Pays bucket. With Requester Pays buckets, the requester instead of the bucket owner pays the cost of the request and the data download from the bucket. The bucket owner always pays the cost of storing data.
* Use STS, Web Identity Federation, and DynamoDB’s Fine Grained Access Control for authentication and authorization directly in DynamoDB.
* To collect logs from your Amazon EC2 instances and on-premises servers into CloudWatch Logs, AWS offers both a new unified CloudWatch agent, and an older CloudWatch Logs agent. It is recommended to use the unified CloudWatch agent which has the following advantages:
  * – You can collect both logs and advanced metrics with the installation and configuration of just one agent.
  * – The unified agent enables the collection of logs from servers running Windows Server.
  * – If you are using the agent to collect CloudWatch metrics, the unified agent also enables the collection of additional system metrics, for in-guest visibility.
  * – The unified agent provides better performance.
* You can configure the CloudFront distribution to enforce secure end-to-end connections to origin servers by using HTTPS and field-level encryption. Configure your origin to add a Cache-Control max-age directive to your objects, and specify the longest practical value for max-age to increase your cache hit ratio.
* You can also create an AWS Lambda trigger for a CodeCommit repository so that events in the repository invoke a Lambda function. For example, you can create a Lambda function that will scan the CodeCommit code submissions for IAM credentials, and then send out notifications or perform corrective actions.
* You can use the same SSL certificate from ACM in more than one AWS Region but it depends on whether you’re using Elastic Load Balancing or Amazon CloudFront. To use a certificate with Elastic Load Balancing for the same site (the same fully qualified domain name, or FQDN, or set of FQDNs) in a different Region, you must request a new certificate for each Region in which you plan to use it. To use an ACM certificate with Amazon CloudFront, you must request the certificate in the US East (N. Virginia) region. ACM certificates in this region that are associated with a CloudFront distribution are distributed to all the geographic locations configured for that distribution.
* AWS Resource Access Manager (AWS RAM) enables you to share specified AWS resources that you own with other AWS accounts. To enable trusted access with AWS Organizations:
  * From the AWS RAM CLI, use the enable-sharing-with-aws-organizations command.
  * Name of the IAM service-linked role that can be created in accounts when trusted access is enabled: AWSResourceAccessManagerServiceRolePolicy.
* The master account of an organization can turn off Reserved Instance (RI) sharing for member accounts in that organization. This means that Reserved Instances are not shared between that member account and other member accounts. You can change this preference multiple times.
* To connect to services such as EC2 using just Direct Connect you need to create a private virtual interface. However, if you want to encrypt the traffic flowing through Direct Connect, you will need to use the public virtual interface of DX to create a VPN connection that will allow access to AWS services such as S3, EC2, and other services.
* With AWS Direct Connect plus VPN, you can combine one or more AWS Direct Connect dedicated network connections with the Amazon VPC VPN. This combination provides an IPsec-encrypted private connection that also reduces network costs, increases bandwidth throughput, and provides a more consistent network experience than Internet-based VPN connections.
* AWS Application Migration Service minimizes time-intensive, error-prone manual processes by automatically converting your source servers to run natively on AWS. It also simplifies application modernization with built-in, post-launch optimization options.
* For some AWS services, you can grant cross-account access to your resources. To do this, you attach a policy directly to the resource that you want to share, instead of using a role as a proxy. The resource that you want to share must support resource-based policies. Unlike a user-based policy, a resource-based policy specifies who (in the form of a list of AWS account ID numbers) can access that resource.
* Cross-account access with a resource-based policy has some advantages over a role. With a resource that is accessed through a resource-based policy, the user still works in the trusted account and does not have to give up his or her user permissions in place of the role permissions. I
* You can create a new AWS CloudTrail trail in a new S3 bucket using the AWS CLI and also pass both the –is-multi-region-trail and –include-global-service-events parameters then encrypt log files using KMS encryption.
* You can use geo restriction – also known as geoblocking – to prevent users in specific geographic locations from accessing content that you’re distributing through a CloudFront web distribution.
* Amazon CloudSearch is a managed service in the AWS Cloud that makes it simple and cost-effective to set up, manage, and scale a search solution for your website or application.
* You can associate a VPC from one account with a private hosted zone in a different account. If you want to associate VPCs that you created by using one account with a private hosted zone that you created by using a different account, you first must authorize the association. In addition, you can’t use the AWS console either to authorize the association or associate the VPCs with the hosted zone.
* The maxReceiveCount is the number of times a consumer tries receiving a message from a queue without deleting it before being moved to the dead-letter queue. Setting the maxReceiveCount to a low value, such as 1, would result in any failure to receive a message to cause the message to be moved to the dead-letter queue. Such failures include network errors and client dependency errors.
* Setting up a diversified allocation strategy for your Spot Fleet is a best practice to increase the chances that a spot request can be fulfilled by EC2 capacity in the event of an outage in one of the Availability Zones.
* SCPs do not affect any service-linked role. Service-linked roles enable other AWS services to integrate with AWS Organizations and can't be restricted by SCPs.
* AWS CloudHSM is a cloud-based hardware security module (HSM) that enables you to easily generate and use your own encryption keys on the AWS Cloud.
* Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) Anywhere is a feature of Amazon ECS that lets you run and manage container workloads on your infrastructure. This feature helps you meet compliance requirements and scale your business without sacrificing your on-premises investments. It ensures consistency with the same on-premises Amazon ECS tools when you migrate to AWS.
* Amazon Connect provides a seamless omnichannel experience through a single unified contact center for voice and chat.
* Amazon Lex is a service for building conversational interfaces into any application using voice and text.
* In AWS Storage Gateway, your iSCSI initiators connect to your volumes as iSCSI targets. Storage Gateway uses Challenge-Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP) to authenticate iSCSI and initiator connections. CHAP provides protection against playback attacks by requiring authentication to access storage volume targets.
* AWS IoT Device Management is a service that makes it easy to securely register, organize, monitor, and remotely manage IoT devices at scale throughout their lifecycle.
* A Route 53 Resolver Endpoint is a customer-managed resolver consisting of one or more Elastic Network Interfaces (ENIs) deployed on your VPC. Resolver Endpoints are classified into two types:
  * Inbound Endpoint – provides DNS resolution of AWS resources, such as EC2 instances, for your corporate network.
  * Outbound Endpoint – provides resolution of specific DNS names that you configure using forwarding rules to your VPC
* SCPs are similar to IAM permission policies except that they don’t grant any permissions. SCP policy simply specifies the services and actions that users and roles can use in the accounts.
* VPC route tables use the longest prefix match to select the most specific route across the intended VPC peering connection.
* Gateway Cached Volumes from AWS Storage Gateway supports volumes of up to 1,024 TB in size, and the frequently accessed data is stored on the on-premises server while the entire data is backed up over AWS.
* Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration enables fast, easy, and secure transfers of files over long distances between your client and an S3 bucket.
* AWS Application Discovery Service helps you plan your migration to the AWS cloud by collecting usage and configuration data about your on-premises servers.
* The AWS Cloud Adoption Readiness Tool (CART) helps organizations of all sizes develop efficient and effective plans for cloud adoption and enterprise cloud migrations.
* AWS Migration Hub (Migration Hub) provides a single place to discover your existing servers, plan migrations, and track the status of each application migration.
* AWS Step Functions is a serverless orchestration service that lets you combine AWS Lambda functions and other AWS services to build business-critical applications. Orchestration centrally manages a workflow by breaking it into multiple steps, adding flow logic, and tracking the inputs and outputs between the steps.
* AWS Systems Manager Patch Manager automates the process of patching managed instances with security-related updates. For Linux-based instances, you can also install patches for non-security updates.
* One of the major ways that you can improve the performance of an AWS Snowball Edge device is to speed up the transfer of data going to and from a device. In general, you can improve the transfer speed from your data source to the device in the following ways. The following list is ordered from largest to smallest positive impact on performance:
  * Perform multiple write operations at one time – To do this, run each command from multiple terminal windows on a computer with a network connection to a single AWS Snowball Edge device.
  * Transfer small files in batches – Each copy operation has some overhead because of encryption. To speed up the process, batch files together in a single archive. When you batch files together, they can be auto-extracted when they are imported into Amazon S3.
  * Write from multiple computers – A single AWS Snowball Edge device can be connected to many computers on a network. Each computer can connect to any of the three network interfaces at once.
  * Don’t perform other operations on files during transfer – Renaming files during transfer, changing their metadata, or writing data to the files during a copy operation has a negative impact on transfer performance. AWS recommends that your files remain in a static state while you transfer them.
  * Reduce local network use – Your AWS Snowball Edge device communicates across your local network. So you can improve data transfer speeds by reducing other local network traffic between the AWS Snowball Edge device, the switch it’s connected to, and the computer that hosts your data source.
  * Eliminate unnecessary hops – AWS recommends that you set up your AWS Snowball Edge device, your data source, and the computer running the terminal connection between them so that they’re the only machines communicating across a single switch. Doing so can improve data transfer speeds.
* AWS IoT Greengrass is an open-source Internet of Things (IoT) edge runtime and cloud service that helps you build, deploy and manage IoT applications on your devices.
* At times, you need to give a third-party access to your AWS resources (delegate access). One important aspect of this scenario is the External ID, optional information that you can use in an IAM role trust policy to designate who can assume the role. The external ID allows the user that is assuming the role to assert the circumstances in which they are operating. It also provides a way for the account owner to permit the role to be assumed only under specific circumstances.
* Amazon OpenSearch Service simplifies the deployment, operation, and scaling of OpenSearch, a widely-used open-source search and analytics engine. It provides robust security features, ensures high availability and data durability, and offers direct access to the OpenSearch API.
* You can write TypeScript or Python code that will define AWS resources, convert these codes to AWS CloudFormation templates by using AWS Cloud Development Kit (AWS CDK), create CloudFormation stacks using AWS CDK, create an AWS CodeBuild job that includes AWS CDK and add this stage to AWS CodePipeline.
* Amazon WorkDocs is a fully managed, secure content creation, storage, and collaboration service. With Amazon WorkDocs, you can easily create, edit, and share content, and because it’s stored centrally on AWS, access it from anywhere on any device. Amazon WorkDocs makes it easy to collaborate with others, and lets you easily share content, provide rich feedback, and collaboratively edit documents.
* If you can predict your need for Amazon DynamoDB read-and-write throughput, reserved capacity offers significant savings over the normal price of DynamoDB provisioned throughput capacity.
* 
